The Project Gutenberg eBook of Kentucky Rug Yarns Vol 5: Rugs, by
Anonymous

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms
of the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the United States, you
will have to check the laws of the country where you are located before
using this eBook.

Title: Kentucky Rug Yarns Vol 5: Rugs

Author: Anonymous

Release Date: June 20, 2021 [eBook #65645]

Language: English

Produced by: Stephen Hutcheson and the Online Distributed Proofreading
             Team at https://www.pgdp.net 

*** START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK KENTUCKY RUG YARNS VOL 5:
RUGS ***





                          _Kentucky Rug Yarns_
                             RUGS      RUGS
                            NEW VISUAL RUGS


                  _crochet with easy-to-follow charts_

_Easy to follow instructions and diagrams for colorful rugs, hats,
pillows and other items_

Vol. 5

                                                                   _29¢_


              _This Book Has Been Especially Prepared For_
                      KENTUCKY SOFT SPUN RUG YARN
                    _Style #113—70 Yards per Skein_

Manufactured by January and Wood Company Inc., Maysville, Kentucky and
distributed in retail stores throughout the United States.

Vivid colors are tops this year. All Kentucky Soft Spun Rug Yarns come
in clear, brilliant colors with harmonizing neutral shades for contrast.

    [Illustration: _Kentucky_ Soft Spun Yarn]




                            _VISUAL CROCHET_


A new idea in crochet. All you have to do is follow the squares on the
chart. The basic stitch is the chain used for foundation to start your
work. Then the single crochet stitch shown in the diagrams. 1-2-3-4.

    [Illustration: {sample crochet chart}]

  Each little square = 1 stitch.
  Change in colors are indicated.
  Rows are numbered.

    [Illustration: _Chain Stitch_]

Hold work loosely between middle finger and thumb right under the hook,
* twist hook on thread (this will be referred to as “thread over”) and
pull thread thru loop on hook, repeat from * until chain is desired
length.

    [Illustration: 1]

    [Illustration: 2]

    [Illustration: 3]

    [Illustration: 4]


                            _Single Crochet_

Chain for desired length, skip 1 ch., insert hook in 2nd st. from hook
(Ill. No. 1), thread over hook and pull through ch.; there are now 2
loops on hook, (Ill. No. 2). Thread over hook (Ill. No. 3) and pull
through both loops (Ill. No. 4).




                             _BALANCED RUG_
                          _Approx. 22″ × 35″_


  Material:
    10 skeins white rug yarn;
    2 skeins red rug yarn;
    2 skeins royal blue rug yarn;
    2 skeins col. green rug yarn;
    2 skeins lemon yellow rug yarn;
    size J crochet hook.

Directions: chart color numbers—1. white; 2. red; 3. blue; 4. col.
green; 5. yellow; follow chart closely. Using double yarn throughout
(two strands worked as one) using 1st. color. Ch. 41—sc. in 2nd ch. from
hook and in each st. across. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 1: Sc. in 1st. sts. Let the 1st. color yarn hang and tie on 2nd
color—1 sc. in next st. with 2nd. color. Now hold the 2nd. color along
your work and using 1st. color work 1 sc. in next 3 sts. Working over
the 2nd color let these two colors hang and tie on 3rd color. 1 sc. in
9th st. using 3rd. color—now let this color hang (to be there when you
come back across) with 1st. color working over 2nd color, put 1 sc. in
next 4 sts. Let first color hang and put 1 sc. of 2nd color in next st.
Let this color hang (to be there when you come back across). With 1st.
color put 1 sc. in each st. on across row—ch. 1—turn. Watch your
chart—as we write the second row through for you.

Row 2: Still working with 1st. color—1 sc. in 1st. 26 sts. or as you see
in chart back to 2nd color. Let 1st. color hang. Put 1 sc. in next st.
using 2nd color (hanging from previous row.) Put 1 sc. with 1st. color
(working over the 2nd color) in next 4 sts. Drop these two colors. Pick
up 3rd. color (left hanging before.) Put 1 sc. in next st.—let this
color hang as before. With 1st. color working over 2nd color put 1 sc.
in next 3 sts. Drop 1st. color, using 2nd. color put 1 sc. in next st.
(now let this color hang)—with 1st. color put 1 sc. in each st. to end
of row—ch. 1—turn. Work in this manner watching the chart. When one
color isn’t used for a while (note chart) as in 4th. row color no. 2
isn’t used again til the 17th. row—tie that color off and put it back on
again in the 17th. row to keep from having to work over it all the way.

Border: Using a single strand of yarn—put sc. sts. evenly spaced all
around the rug—putting 3 sts. in the corner to turn. Put 1 row of scs.
around using each color—Using red first row; white second row; green
third row; yellow fourth row; blue fifth row; tie off yarn.

This is a very useful way to crochet and many new ideas will open
themselves to you using this method of carrying yarn and watching a
chart. _See visual chart on page 43._

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                              _CURLER BAG_


  Material:
    3 skeins of Dark rug yarn;
    2 skeins of Light rug yarn;
    Size G crochet hook.

Directions: With light yarn ch. 3 join to form ring.

Round 1: Ch. 2—16 double croc. in ring. Join with slip st. in starting
ch. 2.

Round 2: Ch. 2 *1 double croc. st. in 1 st.—2 double croc. sts. in next
st. Repeat from *around, join with slip st. in ch. 2.

Round 3: Ch. 2 *1 double croc. st. in next 2 sts.—2 double croc. sts. in
next st.—repeat from *around. Join with slip st. in ch. 2.

Round 4: Ch. 2 *1 double croc. st. in next 3 sts. 2 double croc. sts. in
next st. Repeat from *Around. Join with slip st. in Ch. 2.

Round 5: Ch. 2 *1 double croc. st. in next 4 sts. 2 double croc. sts. in
next st. Repeat from *around. Join with slip st. in Ch. 2.

Round 6: 1 sc. in each st. around. Join with slip st.

Round 7: Ch. 2—count this ch. 2 as part of the first puff st. using only
2 double croc. sts. in this puff (puff st.—work as double croc. st. only
work off only the first 2 loops. Keep the other loops on needle and yarn
over and start another double croc. st. Work off two loops again and
yarn over and start a new double croc. st. Work off 2 loops and then all
the loops. Ch. 1 to tie all loops together at top.) Put 1 loop st. in
every other st. around. Ch. 1 between each st. Slip st. in top of lst
puff st.

Round 8: Ch. 2—the starting puff is made using the ch. 2 as part of the
lst puff st. Ch. 1—1 puff st. in between each puff st. Ch. 1 between
each puff around. Join with slip st. in top of lst puff.

Rounds 9 and 10: Repeat Row 8.

Round 11: Attach dark color—make 10 rows repeating the pattern of 1 puff
st. between each puff st. Ch. 1 between each puff. Join each row with
slip st. in top of lst puff st.

Shell edge: Ch. 1—1 sc. in lst st. 1 double croc. in next st. 1 treble
croc. in next st. Ch. 1, 1 double croc. in next st. *1 sc., 1 double
croc., 1 treble croc., ch. 1—1 double croc. Repeat from *around. Tie off
yarn.

Cord: Using both colors working as one—make a ch. 45″ long—make 2.

Tassels: Make 4. Wind yarn around 8″ cardboard 10 times. Slide off
cardboard, fold in center and tie tightly about an inch from folded end.
Around all strands—cut opposite end and tie on end of cords after they
have been laced over and under around top of bag.

Line bag with colored cloth to match.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: _Directions on Page 6_]




                            _REVERSIBLE RUG_


  Material:
    6 skeins Cream rug yarn
    6 skeins Red Brown rug yarn
    crochet hook size G

Finished rug approximately 19″ by 38″

Directions:

With Red Brown Ch. 72.

Row 1: 1 double croc. st. in 3rd. ch. st. from hook—1 double croc. st.
in each st. across ch.—Ch. 3 turn.

Rows 2—5: 1 double croc. st. in each st. across. Ch. 3 to turn each row.

Row 6: Using Cream (work over the Red Brown yarn). Just lie flat along
your work and go along as usual. Put 1 double croc. st. in each st.
across—ch. 3 turn. Tie off Cream yarn.

Row 7: Using Red Brown yarn—1 double croc. in each st. across. Ch. 3 to
turn each row.

Make 43 rows in this manner.

Repeat row 6—using Cream for the stripe.

Using Red Brown put 5 more rows. (1 double croc. st. in each st. across
row, ch. 3 to turn each row.) Tie off yarn.

Repeat this piece starting with light color and putting the stripe in
dark.

Join the two pieces together with sc. stitches evenly spaced around the
outside using both colors alternating 1 sc. one color, 1 sc. of next
color—put 3 scs. in each corner to turn the corner.

Fringe: 1¼ loop recommended.

Attach yarn to one end of rug—using double strand one light and one
dark—with croc. hook pull both strands of yarn through the 1st. sc. st.
and pull out to a 1¼ in. loop. Separate the two strands of yarn and
bring one in front of the two loops. Pull snug and repeat across row. Do
the other end of rug the same way. _Photo on Page 5._




                      _CHECKERED BORDER INLAY RUG_
                         (_approx. 26″ × 36″_)


  Material:
    Dark Cardinal—3 skeins rug yarn
    Velvet Rose—11 skeins rug yarn
    Light Pink—5 skeins rug yarn
    size J crochet hook
  Gauge: Approx. 2 sts.—1 inch. 2 rows—1 inch

Directions: Velvet Rose—using double strand of yarn ch. 73—1 sc. in 2nd
ch. from hook and in each st. of ch. Ch. 1 turn (72 sts. in all).

Rows 1-4: 1 sc. in each st. across. Ch. 1 turn each row.

Rows 5-6: Using light pink—1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn
each row.

Rows 7-8: Using Dark Cardinal 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 turn
each row.

Rows 9-10: Using dark cardinal working over the light pink put 1 sc. in
lst 2 sts. Using light pink (working over the dark cardinal) put 1 sc.
in next 2 sts. Repeat across row. Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Rows 11-12: Using light pink (working over the dark cardinal) 1 sc. in
1st. 2 sts. Using dark cardinal (working over the light pink) put 1 sc.
in next 2 sts. Repeat across row. Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Rows 13-14: Repeat rows 9 & 10. Tie off yarn.

Rows 15-37: Using velvet rose 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to
turn each row. (22 rows).

Rows 38-39: Repeat rows 13 & 14.

Rows 40-41: Repeat rows 11 & 12.

Rows 42-43: Repeat rows 9 & 10.

Rows 44-45: Repeat rows 7 & 8.

Rows 46-47: Repeat rows 5 & 6.

Rows 48-49-50-51-52: Repeat row 1. Using 1 strand of yarn sc. evenly
spaced all around outside of rug. Put 1 row of scs. of each color to
finish rug and make it lie nicer (put increases in the corner).

    [Illustration: Visual Chart]




                          _PUPPET POT HOLDER_


  Material:
    1 skein Yellow rug yarn;
    1 skein Red rug yarn;
    size G crochet hook.

Directions: With Yellow, ch. 35—join to form ring.

Rows 1-16: Sc. in each st. around—join with slip st. ch. 1.

Row 17: Sc. in first 18 sts.—ch. 1 turn.

Row 18: Sc. across—ch. 1 turn.

Row 19: Sc. across decreasing 1 sc. at each end.

Row 20: Sc. across—ch. 1 turn.

Repeat rows 19 and 20 until 4 sc. are left. Break off.

On back side sc. across 18 sts.—ch. 1 turn. Work the same as front side,
starting with row 18. Break off.

With red (inside mouthpiece), ch. 6—sc. across—ch. 1 turn.

Increase 2 sc. every other row until 17 sc.

Work 4 rows sc. (17 sc.) in each row. Starting next row, decrease 2 sc.
every other row until there are 5 sc. Break off. Put this piece inside
puppet’s mouth. Sc. around outside edge.

Slip st. with color to make eyes and nose.

Hair: *Ch. 16—sc. across ch. Make 1 row of loops—fasten on puppet above
eyes.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                             _STOCKING CAP_


  Material:
    3 skeins rug yarn;
    size G crochet hook

Directions:

Ch. 4—join to form ring—10 dc in ring.

Row 1: 2 sc. in every st. around—sl. st. to beginning ch. 1.

Row 2: *1 sc. in 1st. 4 st.—2 in 5th st. *Continue from *around. Sl.
st.—ch. 1.

Row 3: Sc. around—join ch. 1.

Row 4: Sc. around—join ch. 1.

Row 5: Same as Row 2.

Row 6: 1 sc. in 1st. 7—2 in 8th st.—join ch. 1.

Row 7: 1 sc. in 1st. 4—2 st. in 5th st.—join ch. 1.

Row 8: 1 sc. in 1st. 9—2 st. in 10th st. Join ch.1.

Row 9: Same as Row 7.

Row 10: Same as Row 6.

Row 11: Same as Row 8.

Rows 12 thru 22: Sc. around—join—ch. 1.

Stitch—yarn over hook—down thru stitch and one loop. Yarn over and thru
remaining st.

Rows 23-33: ½ dc. around—join—ch. 1.

Row 34: Decrease 3 st. around—join—ch. 1.

Rows 35 thru 38: ½ dc. around—join—ch. 1.

Row 39: Decrease 3 dc.

Rows 40 thru 43: ½ dc. around—join—ch. 1.

Row 44: Decrease 3 around.

Rows 45 thru 48: ½ dc. around—join—ch. 1.

Rows 49 thru 80: ½ dc. st.—decreasing 1 st. at beginning of every row.
Break yarn. Make tassel and attach to end.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                                _SHELL_


  Material:
    6 skeins white rug yarn;
    3 skeins black rug yarn;
    size J crochet hook.
  Gauge: ¾″ = 2 sts. ¾″ = 2 rows.

School colors make excellent Shell

Directions: Written for small size. Large and medium direction in ( ).
Using black yarn. Chain 45 (53) (61). 1 sc. st. in 2nd. ch. from hook
and each st. of ch. across, ch. 1 to turn.

Row 1: 1 sc. st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 2: 1 sc. st. in 1st. 2 sts. Pick up white yarn (work over the
black), put 1 sc. st. in the next 6 sts. Using black (working over the
white), put 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. Repeat across row in this
manner, ending the row with 4 sts. of black. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 3: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
2 sts. * using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st., using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next 5
sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st. Repeat from * to end of row, ending with 1 st. of black on the end.
Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 4: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
st. * using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
two sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the
next 6 sts. Repeat from * across row, ending the row with 1 sc. st. of
black on the end. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 5: * Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in first
st., using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next 2
sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st., using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
four sts. Repeat from * across row, ending the row with 1 st. of black.
Ch. 1 to turn.

Rows 6, 7, 8: Repeat row 5.

Row 9: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
st., using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next 2
sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in each st. to
end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 10: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
2 sts. * using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
7 sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st. Repeat from * across row, ending the row with one black st. Ch. 1 to
turn.

Row 11: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
2 st. * using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
7 sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st. Repeat from * across row, ending the row with 3 sts. of black. Ch. 1
to turn.

Row 12: Using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the first
4 sts. * using white (working over the black), put 1 sc. st. in the next
7 sts., using black (working over the white), put 1 sc. st. in the next
st. Repeat from * across row, ending row with 1 sc. st. in black. This
completes one pattern. Using your gauge as a guide, start at row one and
complete the pattern as many times as your length requires. This is
measured from the under arm seam. The small sizes uses four pattern
repeats. Now starting from under the arm seam this is the next row.

Row 1: Using black yarn put 1 sc. st. in each st. across row, decreasing
2 sts. on each end. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 2: Using white yarn put 1 sc. st. in each st. across row decreasing
1 st. on each end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 3 through Row 18: Using white yarn put 1 sc. st. in each st. across
row. Ch. 1 to turn each row, tie off yarn, one side complete make one
more the same way.

Sew side seams together, to the arm hole. Sew shoulders together leaving
enough space for your head. With black yarn put sc. sts. evenly spaced
around arm hole and neck. If you have made a long shell and want to
leave side slits start your sewing after you measure the side slit. Put
sc. sts. evenly spaced around this slit also.

    [Illustration: Visual Chart]




                             _CHECK PILLOW_


  Material:
    4 skeins of rug yarn green;
    4 skeins of rug yarn ivory;
    size G crochet hook

Directions: _This is a four row repeat pattern. Note chart._ Carry both
colors as you work, working over one and then the other as the pattern
directs or use chart. Chain 60, using Ivory. Single croc. in 2nd ch.
from hook and each st. across chain 1 turn.

Row 1 of pattern: Using Ivory put 1 sc. st. in 1st. 2 sts. * attach
Green (work over Ivory) 1 sc. in next st. using Ivory 1 sc. in the next
4 sts. repeat from * across row ending with 1 Ivory st. ch. 1 turn.

Row 2: Using Ivory (working over Green) put 1 sc. st. in 1st. st. Using
green (working over Ivory) put 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. using Ivory
working over green 1 sc. in the next 2 sts. repeat from * across row
ending with 1 sc. st. in Ivory. Chain 1 to turn.

Row 3: Using green (working over Ivory) 1 sc. st. in 1st. 4 sts. Using
Ivory (working over green) 1 sc. st. in next st. repeat across row. Ch.
1 turn.

Row 4: * Using green (working over Ivory) 1 sc. in the first 3 sts.
using Ivory (working over green) 1 sc. in next 2 sts. repeat from *
across row, ending with 1 sc. st. of Ivory. This is the four row
repeats. Start at row 1 and repeat the first four rows of pattern, make
9 repeats in all. Finish with a row of sc. using Ivory all the way
across row. Make two sides for your pillow. Crochet together using one
strand of each color yarn, make alternate sts. using first one color
then the next one three sides, insert pillow and sc. on around. Tie off
yarn. _Photo on Page 14._

    [Illustration: Visual Pattern]

This is one repeat. Cont. rows 1 through 4 to the desired size for
pillow. Check pillow pattern chart—each sq. = 1 st. The rows are
numbered.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                              _SHADED RUG_


DOUBLE STRAND OF YARN THROUGHOUT

  Material:
    Four colors:
    4 skeins Forest Green rug yarn;
    4 skeins Dark Green rug yarn;
    4 skeins Aqua Green rug yarn;
    4 skeins Colonial Green rug yarn.

Directions:

Ch. 42—sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and each st. of ch. Turn.

Row 1: Using forest green, 1 sc. in back loop of each st. across row.
Ch. 1 turn.

Row 2: 1 sc. in each st. across row.

Row 3: Repeat Row 1.

Row 4: Repeat Row 2. Tie off yarn.

Row 5: Pick up dark green. Repeat last two rows alternating rows. Tie
off yarn.

Row 9: Pick up Aqua Green. Repeat the same thing.

Row 13: Pick up Colonial Green. Repeat four rows again. Repeat in this
manner using each color 4 times. Tie off yarn.


Border: Sc. evenly spaced around outside of rug. 1 row with each color
putting increases in corners to make rug lie flat. Tie off yarn.

                            _COLOR COMBINATIONS_
  Taupe
  Spice
  Red Brown
  Dark Brown

  Avocado
  Gold
  Copper
  Red Brown

  Yellow
  Maize
  Gold
  Indian Orange

  Light Pink
  Dusty Rose
  Velvet Rose
  Dark Cardinal




                             _ORIENTAL RUG_
                         (_approx. 27″ × 36″_)


  Material:
    8 skeins 1st. color rug yarn
    9 skeins 2nd. color rug yarn
    size J crochet hook
  Gauge: 2 sts. to inch, 2 rows to inch

Directions: Use 2 strands of yarn throughout rug. Using 1st. color, ch.
54—1 sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and each st. across ch. Ch. 1 turn.
Pattern rows:

Rows 1 & 2: Using 1st. color, 1 sc. in first 3 sts. Attach 2nd. color
(work over 1st color) 1 sc. in next 7 sts. * using 1st color (work over
2nd. color) 1 sc. in next 3 sts. Using 1st. color (working over 2nd
color) put 1 sc. in next 7 sts. Repeat from * across row. Ch. 1 to turn
each row.

Rows 3 & 4: * Using 2nd color (work over 1st. color) put 1 sc. in 1st. 3
sts. Using 2nd color (work over 1st. color) put 1 sc. st. in next 2 sts.
Repeat from * across row. Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Rows 5 & 6: Using 2nd color (work over 1st color) put 1 sc. in 5 sts. *
Using 1st. color (work over 2nd) put 1 sc. in 3 sts. Using 2nd color
(work over 1st. color) put 1 sc. in next 7 sts. Repeat from * across
row. Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Rows 7 & 8: Repeat rows 3 & 4. This is the end of 1st. pattern. Repeat
this pattern all eight rows 8 more times—9 patterns in all. Put 1 sc.
using 1st. color in each st. across row. Tie off yarn. Using 1 strand of
yarn, put 2 rows of sc. stitches evenly spaced all around rug,
increasing in corners to keep rug flat. Put 2 inch fringe on each end
following directions for fringe.

    [Illustration: Visual Chart]




                             _TAM AND MUFF_
                    _Picture on front cover of book_


  Material:
    3 skeins of rug yarn to make Tam and Muff
    Buy 2 skeins if made separately. Size G crochet hook.

_TAM:_

Ch. 4 to form ring.

Round 1: Put 8 sc. sts. in ring, join with slip st.

Round 2: 2 sc. sts. in each st. around don’t join mark end of row with
safety pin. From here on don’t join unless told.

Round 3: * 1 sc. st. in 1st. 2 sts. 2 sc. sts. in next st. Repeat from *
around ending with 1 sc. st. in last st.

Round 4: * 1 sc. st. in first 3 sts., 2 sc. in next st. Repeat from *
around ending with 1 sc. st. in last st.

Round 5: * 1 sc. st. in first 4 sts. 2 sc. sts. in next st. Repeat from
* around.

Round 6: * 1 sc. st. in first 5 sts. 2 sc. sts. in next st. Repeat from
* around.

Round 7: Repeat in this manner watching your increases in the round
behind you and increase 1 st. ahead each time. Work through Round 14
(for larger size add more rows).

Round 15: 1 sc. in each st. around.

Round 16: 1 sc. st. in each st. around decreasing 1 sc. st. by working
two sts. together in the top of each increase of previous rounds.

Rounds 17, 18, 19: Sc. in each st. around decreasing 1 sc. st. in the
st. before your decreases of the last row (5 decreases in each row).

Rounds 20, 21: 1 sc. st. in each st. around.

Round 22: 1 slip st. in each st. around. Tie off yarn. Make Pom Pom to
sew on top.

_MUFF:_

End piece—make two: Chain 20 join with slip st.

Round 1: * 2 sc. in 1st st. of ch., 1 sc. in next st. Repeat from *
around. Join with slip st.

Round 2: * 1 sc. in st. 5 sts., 2 sc. sts. in the next st. Repeat from *
around. Join with slip st.

Round 3: 1 sc. st. in each st. around. Join with a slip st.

Round 4: * 1 sc. st. in st. 10 sts. 2 sc. sts. in the 11 st. Repeat from
* around, ending with 1 sc. st. in the last 2 sts. Join with a slip st.
and tie off yarn.

Chain 38 join with a slip st. to form ring.

Round 1: 1 sc. st. in each st. of ch. join with a slip st. Repeat this
round for 18 rounds, tie off yarn. Fit the end pieces in the circle and
sew together with a sc. st. around the outside edge.

Make two Pom Poms by the pattern for making Pom Poms and attach to top
of Muff as shown in picture on the cover.




                       _STRIPED LOOP STITCH RUG_


  Material:
    8 skeins avocado rug yarn; 8 skeins orange rug yarn;
    8 skeins red brown rug yarn; size J crochet hook.
  Gauge: approx. 2 sts. = 1 inch; 2 rows = 1 inch.

Directions:

Border: Using double strand of yarn throughout ch. 53 using avocado.

Row 1: 1 sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and in each st. across ch. Ch. 1 turn.
Repeat row 1—five more times (6 rows in all). Tie off yarn.

Main Rug—Row 1: Using orange put 1 loop st. in each st. across. Ch. 1
turn.

Row 2: 1 sc. in each st. across. Ch. 1 turn. Tie on red brown.

Row 3: Using red brown working over the orange, put 1 loop st. in each
st. across, ch. 1 turn.

Row 4: 1 sc. in each st. across row still working over the orange. Ch. 1
with orange turn.

Row 5: Working over the red brown put 1 loop st. in each st. across row.
Ch. 1 turn.

Row 6: Still working over red brown put 1 sc. st. in each st. across
row. Tie off orange. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 7: Using red brown put 1 loop st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to
turn.

Row 8: 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 9: Repeat row 7.

Row 10: Repeat row 8.

Row 11: Repeat row 7.

Row 12: Repeat row 8. Tie off red brown.

Row 13: Tie on orange—1 loop st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 14: 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 15: Tie on avocado—work over the orange. Put 1 loop st. in each st.
across row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 16: Still working over the orange, put 1 sc. in each st. across. Ch.
1 with the orange. Turn.

Row 17: Working over the avocado, put 1 loop st. in each st. across row.
Ch. 1 turn.

Row 18: Still working over the avocado put 1 sc. in each st. across. Ch.
1 with avocado to turn. Tie off orange.

Rows 19, 20, 21: Using avocado 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to
turn each row.

Row 22: Tie on red brown and work over avocado—put 1 sc. in each st.
across row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 23: Still working over the avocado put 1 loop st. in each st. across
row. Ch. 1 with the avocado. Tie off red brown.

Rows 24, 25, 26: Using avocado 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to
turn each row. Tie off yarn.—Repeat the last 26 rows.—Now repeat the
first 14 rows.—

Row 67: Working over the orange using red brown put 1 loop st. in each
st. across. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 68: Still working over the orange put 1 sc. in each st. across row.
Ch. 1 with orange. Tie off red brown.

Row 69: With orange put 1 loop st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 70: 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 turn. Tie off orange.

Rows 71-76: Repeat six rows of sc. as in border at the start of rug. Tie
off yarn.

Finishing Rug: Using any of the colors you have left, 1 strand only sc.
evenly spaced around rug. On each end of rug put 2 inch looped fringe if
desired.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                            _FLOWER PILLOW_


  Material:
    4 skeins White rug yarn
    1 skein Colored rug yarn
    size G crochet hook

To Make Petals:

(Ch. 6—ch. 1 to turn) Ch. 7—1 sc. in 3rd ch. from hook and in each st.
across ch. Ch. 2 turn—(5 sts. in all).

Row 1: 1 sc. in 1st. 2 sts.—2 sc. in next st. 1 sc. in next 2 sts. ch. 2
turn (6 sts.).

Row 2: 1 sc. in 1st. 2 sts.—2 sc. in next 2 sts.—1 sc. in next 2 sts. (8
sts. in all) ch. 2 turn.

Row 3: 1 sc. in each st. across, putting 2 sts. between the two
increases of the last row (9 sts. in all) ch. 2 turn.

Row 4: Put 2 increasing in next row; one on each end and one in middle
(12 sts. in all) ch. 2 turn.

Row 5: 1 sc. in each st. of row increasing one st. in center. Ch. 2 turn
(13 sts.).

Row 6: 1 sc. in 1st. 4 sts. 2 sc. in next st. 1 sc. in next (3) 4 sts. 2
sc. in next st. 1 sc. in each st. on across row. (Leaves 4 st. at end)
Ch. 2 turn (15 sts.).

Rows 7-8-9: Sc. in each st. of row increasing over the increases of
previous row. Ch. 2 turn. After Row 9 you should have 21 sts.

Row 10: 1 sc. in each st. across. Ch. 2 turn.

Row 11: Skip the 1st st. 1 sc. in next 5 sts. 2 sc. in next st. 1 sc. in
the next 3 sts. Slip st. in next st. 1 sc. in next 3 sts. 2 sc. in next
st. 1 sc. in next 4 sts. Skip the last st. Ch. 2 turn.

Row 12: Skip the 1st. st. 1 sc. in next 4 sts. 2 sc. in next st. 1 sc.
in next 3 sc. 1 slip st. in next st. 1 sc. in next 3 sts. 2 sc. in next
st. 1 sc. in next 4 sts. Skip the last st. Ch. 2 turn.

Row 13: Skip the 1st. st.—1 sc. in next st. 2 sc. in next st. 1 sc. in
next 6 sts. 1 slip st. in next st. 1 sc. in next 6 sts. 2 sc. in next
st. Skip the last st. Ch. 2 turn.

Row 14: Skip the first st. 2 sc. in next st. 1 double croc. st. in the
next 4 sts. 1 sc. in next 2 sts. 1 slip st. in next st. 1 sc. in next 2
sts. 1 double croc. in next 4 sts. 2 sc. in next st. Skip the last st.
Make 8 petals—sc. with a color evenly spaced around each petal leaving
the starting ch. (note picture). Arrange petals to form a circle. Pin or
baste in place. Put sc. sts. evenly spaced around ring. Put another row
of sc. sts. around this ring. Make center and sew to this last row with
a slip st., going through the centerpiece and the row of sc. you put in
circle.

Center: Ch. 3—join to form ring.

Round 1: Put 7 sc. sts. in ring.

Round 2: 2 sc. in each st. around.

Round 3: 1 sc. in each st. around, increasing as often as necessary to
keep work flat.

Round 4: Continue in this manner until the circle fits the ring at top
of petals.

Back of Pillow: Do the same as center, just continue until the piece
fits pillow. We made 23 rows—increase just enough to keep your work
flat. Put pillow inside and slip st. bottom to top. _Photo on Page 19._




                                 _RUG_
                             (_22″ x 29″_)


  Material:
    9 skeins Lavender rug yarn;
    2 skeins Violet rug yarn;
    size J crochet hook.
  Gauge: 2 st. = 1 inch. Approx. 2 rows = 1 inch

Directions: Use double strand of yarn throughout working as one strand
with background color. Chain 43, sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and in each
st. of ch. Ch. 1 to turn.

Rows 2 through 8: 1 sc. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Border:

Rows 1 and 2: Attach border color (working over the background color) 1
sc. st. in 1st. 2 sts. change colors (work over the other color each
color change) 1 sc. st. in next 2 sts. repeat across row. Chain 1 to
turn.

Rows 3 and 4: Using border color working over the background color 1 sc.
st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Rows 5 and 6: Using border color 1 sc. st. in 1st. 2 sts. change color 1
sc. st. in next 2 sts. repeat across row. Detach the border color. For
the next 32 rows use the background color and 1 sc. st. in each st.
across ch. 1 to turn each row. Attach the border color again (work over
the background color as you did before and repeat the six rows of the
border). Finish the rug with 8 rows of the background color 1 sc st. in
each st. Tie off yarn. Put 2 rows of sc. evenly spaced around the rug
using 1 strand of yarn. This rug also looks well with a fringe use the
directions on how to make a fringe (in the book) Page 44.


_To increase the length of rug, add extra rows between the two borders.
See visual chart on page 42._

    [Illustration: _AFGHANS_]

    [Illustration: _AFGHANS_]




                                _AFGHAN_
                       _MADE IN SIX SIDED BLOCKS_


  Material:
    1 skein rug yarn = 3 blocks. Size G crochet hook.
    Take approximately 15 skeins rug yarn for 50 blocks
    1 skein rug yarn to sew together and put border.
  Gauge:
    3 rows = 1 in.—3 st. = 1 in. Size G crochet hook.
    Each block approx. 5 in. across.

Directions: Ch. 4—join with slip st. to form ring. Put 24 pull double
croc. st. in ring. (Pull st. is like a double croc.) (Pull st. yarn
over, put needle through ring, pick up yarn, pull through ring and pull
to desired length 1½″ yarn over, pull through first two loops on needle,
yarn over and pull through remaining two loops.) Join with slip st. to
top of ch. 4.

Round 2: Ch. 1—1 sc. in 1st. st. 2 sc. in 2nd. st. Repeat around
row—join with slip st. in top of ch. 1.

Round 3: Ch. 1 * 1 sc. in 1st. 5 sts.—2 sc. in next st. Repeat from *
around row. Join with slip st.

Round 4: Ch. 1 * 1 sc. in 1st. 6 sts.—2 sc. in top of next st. (over
increases in previous row). Repeat from * around row—join slip st.

Round 5: Ch. 1—1 sc. in 1st. 7 sts.—2 sc. in next st. (over increase of
previous row)—repeat from * around. Join with slip st.

Border: Put sc. sts. evenly spaced around work. Make 50 blocks—sew
together as in the picture. This one is heavy enough to be used as a rug
if so desired. _Photo on Page 22._

                       _SUGGESTED COLOR COMBINATIONS_
  Light Pink
  Old Rose
  Dusty Rose
  Velvet Rose
  Dark Cardinal

  Taupe
  Spice
  Red Brown
  Dark Brown
  Lemon Yellow

  Maize
  Gold
  Orange
  Indian Orange
  Copper

  Forest Green
  Dark Green
  Aqua Green
  Col. Green
  Avocado Green




                                _AFGHAN_
  _MADE IN SQUARES AND CROCHETED TOGETHER LIKE AN OLD-FASHIONED QUILT
                              (PATCHWORK)_


  Material:
    12 skeins White rug yarn;
    9 skeins Blue rug yarn;
    size J crochet hook

1st Block: Using 1st. color—ch. 15 turn.

Work over your 2nd color (lay the strand of yarn along your work and sc.
with the 1st. color as usual). This is done throughout—using alternating
colors as the block indicates.

Row 1: 1st. color—1 sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and in each st. across ch.
Ch. 1 turn. Pull the strand of yarn you’re working over to the back of
your work after the Ch. 1 in each row. (To keep your work smooth on the
edges.)

Rows 2 to 14: 1 sc. in each st. across row—ch. 1 to turn each row. Tie
off yarn. Keep the yarn you are working over just tight enough not to
pull your work. It is supposed to show through (note picture).

The next block is made the same way only alternating your colors.

Make 54 blocks in all. (27 blocks of color).

Work in loose strands around each block so they will sew together
neatly.

                           _TO SEW TOGETHER_

Take two squares of different colors and slip st. together on corner
using any color you like. We used a light color to show pattern of
stitches in picture. With yarn on back side of your work pull the loop
on your needle from the slip st. out long enough to reach 1st. st. in
1st. row of 2nd block (on the right). Put needle through st. Pick up
yarn and pull through loop on needle (slip st). Pull loop on needle long
enough to reach 1st. st. in 2nd row of 1st. block (left one). Put needle
through st. Pick up yarn from the block and pull through st. and loop
(slip st). Pull loop long enough to go to 1st. in 3rd. row of right
block. Slip st. Repeat, skipping every other row. Alternate in each
block. When you reach the top of the two blocks add two more and repeat
till the length is reached (9 blocks high—6 blocks wide). Then working
from the side repeat the same st. down each row until the whole Afghan
is together (note picture).

Border: Put 3 rows of sc. evenly spaced all around—putting 3 sts. in
each corner to turn—tie off yarn. _Photo on Page 23._

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                               _MOD. RUG_


  Material:
    7 skeins of Dark Cardinal rug yarn.
    8 skeins of Velvet Rose rug yarn.
    Size J crochet hook.
      Dark Cardinal Color No. 2
      Velvet Rose Color No. 1

Directions: Using double strand of yarn throughout working over the
color not in use. Follow pattern. Chain 49, 1 sc. st. in second ch. from
hook and each st. across ch. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 1: Using color No. 1 put 1 sc. st. in first 32 sts. Using color No.
2 put 1 sc. st. in each st. to end of row. 48 sts. in all. Ch. 1 to
turn.

Row 2: Using color No. 2 put 1 sc. st. in first 17 sts. Using color No.
1 put 1 sc. st. in each st. to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 3: Using color No. 1 put 1 sc. st. in first 30 sts. Using color No.
2 put 1 sc. st. in next 2 sts. Using color No. 1 put 1 sc. st. in each
st. to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 4: First 16 sts. in color No. 1, next 3 sts. in color No. 2, use
color No. 1 to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 5: First 28 sts. in color No. 1, next 4 sts. in color No. 2, use
color No. 1 in each st. to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 6: First 16 in No. 1 color. Next 5 sts. in No. 2 color. Use No. 1
color to end of row dh. 1 to turn.

Row 7: First 26 sts. in color No. 1, next 6 sts. in color No. 2, use
color No. 1 to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 8: First 16 sts. in color No. 1, next 7 sts. in color No. 2, use
color No. 1 to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 9: First 8 sts. in color No. 1, next 25 sts. in color No. 2, use
color No. 1 to end of row. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 10: First 16 sts. in color No. 1, next 25 sts. in color No. 2, last
7 sts. in color No. 1. Ch. 1 to turn.

Rows 11 through 34: Ch. 1 to turn each row.

Row 11: 6 color No. 1, 2 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16
color No. 1.

Row 12: 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 3 color No. 2, 5
color No. 1.

Row 13: 4 color No. 1, 4 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16
color No. 1.

Row 14: 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 5 color No. 2, 3
color No. 1.

Row 15: 2 color No. 1, 6 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16
color No. 1.

Row 16: 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 7 color No. 2, 1
color No. 1.

Row 17: 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1.

Row 18: 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2, 16 color No. 1, 8 color No. 2.

Row 19: 8 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 24 No. 2.

Row 20: 23 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 8 No. 2.

Row 21: 8 No. 2 color, 16 No. 1, 22 No. 2, 2 No. 1.

Row 22: 3 No. 1, 21 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 8 No. 2.

Row 23: 8 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 20 No. 2, 4 No. 1.

Row 24: 5 No. 1, 19 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 8 No. 2.

Row 25: 8 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 18 No. 2, 6 No. 1.

Row 26: 7 No. 1, 17 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 8 No. 2.

Row 27: 24 No. 2 color, 16 No. 1, 8 No. 2.

Row 28: 9 No. 1, 16 No. 2, 23 No. 2.

Row 29: 22 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 10 No. 2.

Row 30: 11 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 21 No. 2.

Row 31: 20 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 12 No. 2.

Row 32: 13 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 19 No. 2.

Row 33: 18 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 14 No. 2.

Row 34: 15 No. 2, 16 No. 1, 17 No. 2. This is the first repeat. Start
with row 1 and repeat to the desired length you want your rug. Then put
one row all the way across using color No. 1. Tie off yarn. Border: Put
three rows of single crochet around edge of rug using one strand of yarn
only be sure to increase in corners so rug will lie flat.

    [Illustration: Visual Chart
    Each square = 1 stitch.
    Rows are numbered.]




                              _AUTUMN RUG_
                              _24″ x 36″_


  Material:
    4 skeins forest green rug yarn;
    6 skeins avocado rug yarn;
    6 skeins aqua rug yarn;
    5 skeins yellow rug yarn;
    2 skeins maize rug yarn;
    1 skein orange rug yarn.
    Size J crochet hook.

Directions: Use double strand of yarn—1 strand avocado, 1 strand forest
green—Ch. 50—sc. in 2nd ch. from hook and in each st. of ch. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 1: 1 loop st. in each st. of row. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 2: 1 sc. st. in each st. across. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 3—11: Repeat row 1 & 2—(1 row sc. and 1 row loops). Ch. 1 to turn
each row.

Row 12: 1 sc. in 1st. 20 sts. Tie on aqua. With aqua and avocado work
over forest green. Put 1 sc. in next 9 sts. Drop the aqua (let it hang
from your work). Pick up forest green. Using forest green and avocado,
put 1 sc. in next 20 sts. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 13: sc. back across row—Ch. 1 turn. (Picking up the aqua and working
with the avocado as you did in last row.) Ch. 1 turn.

Row 14: 1 loop st. in next 18 sts. Pick up aqua and working over the
forest green using aqua and avocado, put 1 loop st. in next 13 sts. Drop
the aqua, pick up forest green. With forest green and avocado put 1 loop
in each st. to end of row.—Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 15—24: Work in pattern, watching the chart for the number of added
avocado and aqua sts. in each row. Until in row 25 the aqua and avocado
go all the way across rug. Drop forest green.

Row 26: You pick up yellow—Do this the same way as the avocado and aqua
watching the chart for the sts.

Row 37: The yellow and aqua go all the way across row on one side (so
you will drop the avocado when you pick up the yellow and pick it up on
the next row back.)

Row 39: Pick up maize (follow chart). You are now working with olive,
aqua, yellow, maize, as they appear on chart.

Row 48: Pick up orange (follow chart). You are now working with olive,
aqua, yellow, maize, orange.

Row 56: Carry forest green all the way across row, working over it as
necessary as it is used on both ends of row.

Row 58: Pick up forest green again. Just follow the chart, each square
is a st. The colors are marked with the stitch line of each patch. Do 76
rows in all to complete rug. Watch the chart closely.


Border: Using single strand of forest green single croc. evenly spaced
all around outside of rug, putting 3 sc. in each corner. Tie off yarn.

Fringe: Put 2 in. looped fringe on each end.

  _Fringe instructions on page 44._

  _Photo on Page 30._

    [Illustration: _See visual chart on page 41._]




                             _BRIDGE COVER_


  Material:
    9 skeins Brown rug yarn
    4 skeins Cream rug yarn
    size G crochet hook

Directions: With main color—ch. 85—sc. across ch. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 1: sc. in each sc. across—ch. 1 turn.

Row 2: Using main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Changing to contrasting
color—1 sc. in next 6 sc. (working over main color). Using main
color—working over contrasting yarn—sc. in next 54 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Using main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Using
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 3 thru 7: Using main color—working over main color—and contrasting
color over contrasting color, repeat Row 2.

Row 8: Using contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1
sc. in next 54 sc. Using contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
main color 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Using contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 9 thru 13: Using main color over main color and contrasting color
over contrasting color, repeat Row 8.

Row 14: Using main color, 1 sc. in next 54 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. Using main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 15 thru 19: Repeat Row 14—using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 20: 1 sc. in next 48 sc. Using main color. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. Using main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 21 thru 25: Repeat Row 20 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 26: With main color, 1 sc. in next 42 sc. Using contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Using main color, 1 sc. in next
12 sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 27 thru 31: Repeat Row 26—working main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 32: With main color, 1 sc. in next 36 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 18
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 33 thru 37: Repeat Row 32 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 38: Using main color, 1 sc. in next 30 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 24
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 39 thru 43: Repeat Row 38 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 44: Using main color, 1 sc. in next 24 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 30
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 45 thru 49: Repeat Row 44 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 50: With main color, 1 sc. in next 18 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 36
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 51 thru 55: Repeat Row 50 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 56: With main color, 1 sc. in next 12 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 42
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 57 thru 61: Repeat Row 56 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 62: With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 48
sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 63 thru 67: Repeat Row 62 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 68: Contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in
next 6 sc. With contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color,
1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With
main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6
sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 54 sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 69 thru 73: Repeat Row 68 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 74: With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. With main color—1 sc. in next 6 sc. With contrasting
color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1 sc. in next 54 sc. With
contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 75 thru 79: Repeat Row 74 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 80: With contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main color, 1
sc. in next 6 sc. Contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. With main
color, 1 sc. in next 54 sc. With contrasting color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc.
With main color, 1 sc. in next 6 sc. Ch. 1 turn.

Rows 81 thru 85: Repeat Row 80 using main color over main color and
contrasting color over contrasting color.

Row 86: 1 sc. in each sc. across. Ch. 1 turn.

Row 87: Repeat Row 86.

Border: Sc. evenly around. Sew pieces of ½ in. elastic across each
corner to hold on table.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                        _RUG WITH BORDER DESIGN_
                              _22″ x 35″_


  Material:
    18 skeins background rug yarn
    2 skeins border rug yarn
    size J crochet hook
  Gauge: 2 sts. = 1 inch—2 rows = 1 inch

Directions: Using two strands of yarn working as one. Start with
background color chain 46, single croc. in the second ch. from hook and
in each ch. across row. ch. 1 to turn.

Row 1: 1 single croc. st. in each st. across row. Ch. 1 to turn. Repeat
this row six more times. Eight rows in all.

BORDER: Row 1: Using background color, 1 sc. st. in 1st. 4 sts. *
pick-up border color (work over the background color) 1 sc. st. on the
next 5 sts. use background color (work over the border clr) 1 sc. st. in
the next 3 sts. repeat across row from * ending with 1 sc. st. in the
last 4 sts. with background color. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 2: Using background color, (working over the border color) 1 sc. st.
in the 1st. 3 sts., using border color (working over background color) 1
sc. st. in the next st. (change colors the same way working over the
other color) * 1 sc. st. in the next 5 sts. change colors, 1 sc. st. in
the next st. (change colors) 1 sc. st. in the next st. change colors, 1
sc. st. in the next st. repeat from * across row ending with 3 sts. of
border color. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 3: * With background color (working over the border color) 1 sc. st.
in the 1st. 2 sts., change colors 1 sc. st. in next st., change colors 1
sc. st. in the next 2 sts., change colors 1 sc. st. in the next 3 sts.
repeat across row from * ending with 2 sc. sts. in the background color.
Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 4: * Using border color, 1 sc. st. in 1st. st. change colors, 1 sc.
st. in the next 2 sts. change color, 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. change
color, 1 sc. st., 3 sts. change color, repeat across row ending with 2
sts. of border color. Ch. 1 to turn.

Row 5: Using background color, 1 sc. st. in 1st. two sts. change color 1
sc. in the next st. change color 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. change
color, 1 sc. st. * change color 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. change
color 1 sc. st. in the next st. change colors 1 sc. st. in the next 2
sts. change colors 1 sc. st. in next st. change color 1 sc. st. in next
st. change color 1 sc. st. in next st. repeat across row., ending with 1
sc. st. of the background color in the last st.

Row 6: Using background color, 1 sc. st. in the 1st. 2 sts. change color
1 sc. st. in the next st. * change color 1 sc. in the next 2 sts. change
color 1 sc. st. in the next 2 sts. repeat from * across row, the fourth
st. from the end of row. Should be in the border color, the last three
sts. of row in the background color, ch. 1 to turn.

Row 7: Using background color 1 sc. st. in 1st. four sts. * change color
1 sc. st. in the next st. change color 1 sc. st. in the next 4 sts.
change color 1 sc. st. in the next st. change color 1 sc. st. in the
next 2 sts. repeat across row ending in 3 sts. of background color. Ch.
1 to turn.

Row 8: * Using background color 1 sc. st. in 1st. 4 sts. change color 1
sc. st. in next 4 sts. repeat from * across row ending in 5 sts. of
background color ch. 1 to turn. Border is complete, fasten off the
border color. Using background color 1 sc. in each st. across row, ch. 1
to turn. Repeat this row from 57 more rows. (58) rows in all. Then start
at Row 1 of the border and put the border in again just as you did
before finish with 8 rows of sc. in the background color, tie off yarn.
This rug is nice with or without a fringe (see in book “how to make
fringe”) to finish off the rug put 2 rows of sc. sts. evenly spaced
around the outside using 1 strand of yarn. Either color.

    [Illustration: _See visual chart on page 40._]




                        _THE SHELL STITCH COVER_


  Material:
    9 skeins of rug yarn
    size G crochet hook
    Cover size 20½ by 31 inches

Directions: Chain 75. 1st. Row: 1 sc. in third stitch from the needle. 2
dc. in the same stitch, ch. 2, and 3 dc. in the same stitch as 2 dc.
(making a shell). Skip 2 ch. and 1 sc. in next ch., * 3 dc., ch. 2, 3
dc. in the 3rd ch. and skip 2 ch. and 1 sc. in the following ch.
Continue until you have twelve shells. Ch. 3 and turn. (If the rug seems
to circle some this will straighten out as each row is added.)

2nd to 46th Rows: 1 sc. in last dc. of last shell. 2 dc. in same stitch,
ch. 2, 3 dc. in same stitch (making a shell). * 1 sc. in ch. 2 of
previous row. 3 dc., ch. 2, and 3 dc. in sc * and ch. 3 and turn.

47th Row: 1 dc. in last stitch of last shell, 2 dc. in the same stitch.
* 1 sc. in ch. 2. 1 dc., 1 hdc., 1 sc., 1 hdc., 1 dc. in the sc *.
Continue to the end of row and tie.


By adding more rows this makes a beautiful Afghan done in a combination
of 4 colors—4 rows of each throughout.




                          _QUICKY DISH CLOTH_


  Material:
    1 skein rug yarn
    size 8 knitting needles

Directions: Using two strands of yarn knitting them as you would one
strand, cast on 20 sts.

Knit 4 and purl 4 across row, repeat for 12 rows or until the cloth is
the desired size, bind off.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]




                          _T.V. STACK PILLOW_


  Material:
    14 skeins Red rug yarn
    1 skein Ivory rug yarn
    crochet hook—Boye G
    Styrofoam Pillow—20″ by 20″ by 4″
    20″ zipper

Directions: Half double croc. st.—yarn over as you would in a double
croc. stitch—go through st. Pick up yarn and pull through all loops on
hook. Top & Bottom: Make two pieces using red ch. 68.

Row 1: 1 half double croc. st. in 3rd st. of ch. 1 half double croc. st.
in each st. of ch. across row. (66 st. in all.) Should measure 20″—ch.
2—turn. Continue for 50 rows putting 1 half double croc. st. in each st.
across ch. 2 to turn each row (measure 20″). Strips for sides (make 4):
Ch. 14—1 half double croc. st. in 3rd st. of ch. and in each st. across
ch. (12 sts.) (measures 4 in.) ch. 2 turn. Continue putting 1 half
double croc. st. in each st. across ch. 2 to turn each row until your
work measures 20″.

Tassels: Make 4. Cut a piece of cardboard 5 in. wide and wrap yarn
around 30 times—use either color or both. Slide off cardboard carefully
and tie with string as tightly as possible about an in. from top and
around all the strands—cut the other end too and trim evenly with bottom
of pillow—finish tassel—(note picture). Tie to each corner of pillow.

Put together: using ivory yarn, croc. all seams together with sc. st.
With seams to outside put several stitches in corners so work will lie
flat. Leave on edge open for zipper. Pin zipper in, then baste before
stitching—on sewing machine.




                             _KNOTTED BELT_


4 inches of yarn makes 1 inch of belting.

Buckle of your choice.

Measure your yarn, double what you need so you can loop it on your
buckle, note diagram 1. Page 39.

You will need 12 strands to work with to make a 2 inch belt.

This is a square knot, so you work with 4 strands at a time, just follow
the diagrams. The first row will have three knots, on the next row skip
the first two strands and work with the next four, only two knots in the
second row, then three knots in the third and so on bind off yarn at the
end.

    [Illustration: uncaptioned]

    [Illustration: 1]

    [Illustration: 2]

    [Illustration: 3]

    [Illustration: 4]

    [Illustration: Border Rug—Visual pattern.
    Directions on page 34.
    Each square=1 st.
    The rows are numbered.]

    [Illustration: Autumn Rug—Visual pattern.
    Directions on page 29.]

  FOREST GREEN & AVOCADO
  AVOCADO & AQUA
  YELLOW & AQUA
  YELLOW & MAIZE
  YELLOW & ORANGE

    [Illustration: 22 x 29 Rug—Visual pattern.
    Directions on page 21.]

    [Illustration: 22 x 35 Rug—Visual pattern.
    Directions on page 3.]




                                 _KNIT_


All visual patterns can be knitted. Look at the croc. pattern, find out
how many ch. sts. you start out with and cast on one st. less. Use
number 8 large size knitting needle. This makes the same gauge—2 sts. to
the inch, 2 rows to the inch. When just the border pattern is given,
look at the croc. pattern to find out how many rows to make. Most of the
patterns for rugs use a double strand of yarn; just hold them together
and knit as you would one strand.


                    _INSTRUCTIONS FOR MAKING FRINGE_
                        (_1¼″ Loop Recommended_)

Working with wrong side of rug up, attach two strands of yarn to edge of
rug, and with crochet hook pull both strands of yarn through a single
crochet stitch and form the 1¼″ loop. Then wrap one strand of yarn back
under the loop. Pull the strands up snug; then to form the next 1¼″
loop, pull both strands of yarn through the next stitch to the left, and
again wrap one strand under the last loop made. Proceed this way all
around the rug.


                         _LOOP STITCH PATTERN_

*Loop st.—Put your needle through st. wrap yarn over your finger twice
counter clockwise. With needle go under 1st. strand through loop on
finger, pick up last strand, pull through loop on finger and through st.
Finish like a sc and on to the next.


                            _ABBREVIATIONS_

  ch.       chain
  st.(s)    stitch(es)
  sc.       single crochet
  h dc.     half double crochet
  dc.       double crochet
  *         Repeat whatever follows the * as many times as specified.
  ( )       Do what is in parentheses the number of times indicated.


                               _POM POM:_

Wrap yarn around a 4 inch piece of cardboard, carefully slide off the
cardboard and tie in the middle all around the yarn very tightly. Trim
each end with scissors and shape into a puff. Sew on top of tam over the
hole.


Scatter rugs and throw pillows are fashionable and are an inexpensive
way of putting warmth and color in your room. Sturdy, long-wearing
Kentucky Soft Spun Yarns work up particularly well for rugs and pillows.
Kentucky Soft Spun patterns are simple and interesting.

Yarns vary in color from one dye lot to the next. Buy enough at one time
to finish the particular design.

Always wash finished item in warm water with mild soap.

Every effort has been made to have crocheting directions accurate and
complete. We cannot be responsible for variance of individual
crocheters, knitters, human error or typographical mistakes.

    [Illustration: _Kentucky_ Soft Spun Yarn]




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Silently corrected a few typos.

—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.



*** END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK KENTUCKY RUG YARNS VOL 5:
RUGS ***

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the
United States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for an eBook, except by following
the terms of the trademark license, including paying royalties for use
of the Project Gutenberg trademark. If you do not charge anything for
copies of this eBook, complying with the trademark license is very
easy. You may use this eBook for nearly any purpose such as creation
of derivative works, reports, performances and research. Project
Gutenberg eBooks may be modified and printed and given away--you may
do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks not protected
by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the trademark
license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country other than the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you will have to check the laws of the country where
  you are located before using this eBook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm website
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that:

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the manager of
the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark. Contact the Foundation as set
forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non-profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's business office is located at 809 North 1500 West,
Salt Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up
to date contact information can be found at the Foundation's website
and official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without
widespread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine-readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our website which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This website includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.
